---
id: metrics
title: Metrics
slug: /metrics
---

mod.io Metrics is a world-class analytics system that provides insights on your UGC community on each platform. These insights include: 

* How many times UGC has been downloaded, on what platforms and in which countries
* When your players are most active
* How many creators you have in your community, and when they joined
* What are the trending UGC and creators in the last month
* How many reports have been raised against UGC, and whether these reports are valid

In addition, our upcoming Concurrent Players premium feature will give you insights into how long players are playing UGC and how frequently, letting you answer questions such as how UGC contributes to player retention and game longevity. 

## How it works 

When a player takes an action that interacts with mod.io, Metrics reads the CDN logs generated by that action. For example, if a player opens the in-game browser, a request is sent to mod.io to populate the search results. These requests contain details such as the player’s ID, platform, and the UGC viewed. The CDN logs contain a record of these requests.

The Metrics system reads these logs in near-real time, and populates an Amazon Redshift database. This data is then supplied to dashboards which you can view for your game on mod.io. In the near future, you will also be able to read this data directly in your BI software, such as from inside PowerBI. 

## Setting up Metrics

You do not need to do anything to set up standard metrics covering UGC, User Activity and Health. These metrics are a free, standard feature of any mod.io integration. However, you will get more accurate metrics if you require players to be authenticated with mod.io, as some metrics measure authenticated players only. 

## Creator metrics

UGC creators in your game receive access to metrics relevant to their content only, including the number of downloads of their UGC as well as the number of players browsing their UGC in the in-game browser. Creators do not receive game-level data, or data about any other person’s UGC.  
